You see any simple model of human nature is going to be wrong human nature is complex many emotions are possible many motivations are possible in the human mind so.
A simplistic motivation that you have a simplistic model of human nature humans are motivated by profit.
Is absurd i'm not denying that that motivation exists but they are denying all the others.
This is linux unplugged episode 243 welcome to linux unplugged your weekly linux talk show that's got so much stuff in its dock today you might just say it's having a bit of a breakdown.
My name is chris my name is was actually west the votes are out will no make it this episode will it not the chat room is currently running the odds but before we get there we have some news from valve and apple is currently poaching linux developers.
It's actually even more mysterious than you might think say what and then there's some new nvidia features coming to snap packages wimpy's here he'll tell us all about that alice so f is a really handy tool to tell you what your linux box is doing.
Especially what files are open but there's a way now to make it even cooler with visuals and all of that stuff plus will tell you how 500,000 lines of code.
Are being cut from the linux kernel daniel foray will jump in here and tell us about the march towards juno and then wess has got oregano what is it and why is wess loaded it well it fits with an overall theme later on in the show today we're going to talk about an opinion piece that ran in the guardian that was authored by one richard stallman and it's his radical proposal to keep your data safe he says the surveillance imposed on modern society far exceeds that of the sun.
Soviet union for freedom and democracy sake we need to eliminate most of it and for richard he's got some pretty saying it centered opinions on how we could do that it involves some tweaks to existing surveillance systems and payment systems but it's worth discussing so we'll get to that later on the show but before we go any further we must bring in that virtual log time appropriate greetings mumble room hey hello hello hello.
I don't know what any of that was but I loved all of it hello guys how are you doing today we have a good showing wimpy it's good to see you back.
Hello hello hello hello sir good to have you as always guys what do you say we start the show out today with a little valve news we haven't talked about valve in a little while cue the valve.
Oh there it is yep who was and shivers down my spine every time I don't think this move surprises anyone but it appears that steam machines are just silently disappearing from the valve website.
Yeah liam over at gaming on linux dot com has this he says in fact the entire hardware page on steam is now gone and anyone that goes to the direct link the store dot steam power dot com slash hardware is just redirected to a basic search page.
And it looks like when he did some digging it must have rolled through earlier this month.
You know when I was down at dell I kind of got a cold read on the future they weren't sure they thought maybe vr and 4k would push it over but I don't think there's been a huge demand on steam machines for vr and that's sort of what they were banking on to bring to the next level and be competitive with consoles that was going to be their secret sauce and it didn't materialize.
You know even now it like if you like liam makes the point there's now over 4,000 linux games on steam with more releasing every single day of course a lot of them are junk but that's just how it always goes some of them are great too.
I gotta be honest I think I bought into the hype pretty big back in the day when these things were first announced because if you remember it was a hype sandwich.
It had it had windows store momentum that was freaking out valve and epic and other game developers and then you had the whole like layer the tasty tasty layer of the steam client getting developed and created for the linux and then the finish at the bottom there was the nice savory fact that then they were going to ship purpose built hardware to run steam and they're going to create their own linux distribution and.
I mean how can I not get excited about that that's just that's some exciting shit the reality is, though, that.
Consoles of really not changed much since they launched the market Microsoft and Sony have and Nintendo have continued to lock that market up.
Console gamers seem to be a different type of gamer than PC gamers to a large extent I don't know maybe I'm wrong I mean I'm not not a big gamer but it seems to be that the markets aren't maybe there's not a big crossover there right and there hasn't been a huge amount of radical change either you know that would that would naturally lead to a new contender coming in.
Yeah, I know, maybe this is just them redoing stuff but I don't know anybody in the mumba room have any takes on valve pulling down the steam machines off of the website is this a sign.
Yeah, I think a lot of it has to do with the very successful steam link because you can then just use your regular PC across the network plug it into your TV and boom there's your console.
I can 100% see that yep yeah the steam link has been the steam link and the steam controller have been successful byproducts of that experiment so yeah and exactly as proud owner i'm like yeah that's it that's got to be it and it makes sense, then you invest once in a really nice graphics card and a really nice desktop PC and then you can stream it to multiple televisions and it actually works, you know i've got one i've only used a little bit, but it I was impressed it actually works and invidia has got something similar.
That's built into the invidia shield you can do the same thing to the invidia shield tv if you have a windows right so there you go i don't i don't know all right how about a mystery you guys want a little mystery oh yeah and and bacon points out in the chat room cheese bacon points out that the moonlight project which lets you just use a raspberry pie because remember it's an hd 64 stream here all right how about this one i what do you guys make of this what is going on apple for unknown reasons is looking to hire.
Multiple linux kernel developers in both texas and in california is that right yeah they specifically are looking for people with linux kernel development experience and someone with five plus years of embedded linux kernel development experience in understanding of the linux kernel internals familiarity with arm and linux kernel device driver development experience.
In carpentino and in carpentino and in texas in texas i'm not sure i don't know where is there it doesn't say what town in texas but um oh austin.
Yeah what is that about it doesn't necessarily seem like it you know it seems device oriented or something on the embedded space if not you know not their server like server stuff maybe would make more sense yeah it's just weird that when it's paired at that same time those rumors going around that they're switching cpu to cpu.
But if you're in the austin area or the carpentino area you might want to get a gig because they you know probably pay pretty decent and could just be for building custom systems in their data centers you know it could be could be could be arm embedded.
Arm embedded yeah um and so i did a little uh i did a little digging to see if this is the first time they've ever done this and it is not it is not this has been going on i i found two other job postings this year where they were looking for.
Uh potential employees with linux development experience and everything from linux file systems was one of the requirements for familiarity with linux file systems.
And it could just be that they are looking to make their products better and so they want to hire somebody that is working on a superior superior built system i mean i you know what i'm saying i mean i'm not trying to punch to the gut there.
I'm not a big fan of their colonel acre well who knows i who am i to say but you gotta wonder if it's not a good way to vet a a better developer from a a less better developers take a risk on somebody that has some kernel experience you probably probably a good chance they know what they're doing yeah and probably have some yeah easily easy to vet open source contribution exactly exactly so anyways isn't that weird it's been going around it's been going around in two different locations too so.
I mentioned some new features this week well check this out hot little on my hot little hands here i have some notes about a new release of snapping which supports dry and video drivers and it will be shipping in a book to 1804 lts apparently this is all part of snap 2.32.2 which is available for download now and runs on all snappy enabled gnu slash linux distributions now.
I can't tell you about it but i probably would be doing a disservice when we could just ask mr wimpy kind of the details about this but wimpy if i'm grokking this story it looks like snapped applications can now take advantage of the binary nvidia driver for full acceleration and maybe even kuda i i don't know how deep it goes but what's the details.
Well this isn't something new this is just a change to accommodate the nvidia 390 drivers oh i see this has already been possible oh yeah this has been this has been there for some time news to me but the yeah okay so uh yes but it's been around for a while so you know when you install games like um uh what's the mario kart thing super tux kart there's a snap of that that's obviously using all of that stuff already.
But the 390 drivers have a different layout and structure and different shared object names and the confinement model needed to be updated to support that those those new drivers.
Anything in particular that i'd find interesting so what did nvidia do with the 390 release that because i assume the trick is is talking outside the sandbox is that is that what has to be sort of shored up is that capability.
It's passing through to the drivers on the host operating system yeah and the location of the shared objects have changed in some cases so they didn't they didn't hook up properly but they do now and that'll be in 1804 when it ships.
It's already in 1804 and it's making its way to the other flavors you know the other releases in due course looks like there are some improvements to temporary files with app armor as well with snap d so that looks good.
I uh i gotta say this is me saying this and i'm not saying it because wimpy's here seeing uh now poppy too hi poppy i uh see you know i've seen a lot of good pickups of snaps it feels like momentum mm-hmm flat packs got some pickups this week too but i really feel like snaps have maintained a pretty strong trajectory.
Hey chris while you're on that yeah while you're on that trip i've got a great snap for you oh yeah tell me about it coin top snap install coin top you will totally love this this is completely up your alley you will love this we'll do it live install coin top and then just run coin top all right i'm uh snap installing it now it's an htop style interface to cryptocurrency i knew you were gonna say i love it i already love it so much that's great.
And of course you would be the person to know about this uh snap i know this is an area that you owe this look at my finger on the pulse of this of course yeah you know poppy is your go-to guy for cryptocurrency and all of your vr inquiries should come to me guys this is uh this is so cool all right everybody uh go and go snap install coin top because i the part that really the really sells it for me is the ticker graph along the top.
When you can generate a graph like that on a on a command line application that deserves an instant you put in some some some love there so uh gives you it gives you the uh the top 13 at least in that how many i can fit i suppose if i were to make my.
Oh just page down page down left and right there you go i'm down there you go oh yeah there we go the the letters at the top of the columns will sort the columns and all that it's brilliant nano coin huh hmm interesting wow there's more coins these days and i would know what to do with that is awesome.
That is thanks little uh bonus uh app pick there for mr poppy appreciate that uh well uh i guess i guess what i thought was a great development for snaps is just business as usual and keeping things moving along.
And uh which is also good it's good not to have those kinds of things break well while we're talking about really cool apps west found lsof to graph viz now lsof as you know lists all of the open files on your linux rig.
And that's cool but what if you could graph at all and it looks so neat i did it here on my uh plasma neon box and it is it's really cool like i actually forgot that i had postgres running so you can see if you ran it on yours you'd see all the different.
All the different processes and which ones are communicating to which over like a loop back adapter you can see that system d literally has its hooks into like a bajillion things it's really kind of intense.
And i also realize how many applications on my machine have a back end front end arrangement like spotify and a bunch of others that have a back end listening process and it it it visualizes those links between those processes.
Yeah it's a fascinating look that i mean you can obviously piece together through various other options but especially maybe if you're interrogating the system you're not too familiar with or you're trying to do an audit this is a helpful overview.
Yeah it was well i guess oh yeah postgres i forgot i did that for a show one time and you have to have lua installed and you have to have graph viz installed and if you're on 1604 and you install lua 5 3.
The package maintainer didn't set up a symbolic link so you have to symbolically link user bin lua 5 3 to user bin lua but once you do those things it generates a nice pretty graph for you it sure does.
And we'll have a link in the show notes if you want to see that new show notes too got to mention this i really got to be i got to be better about this because i'm still getting tweets they don't know they don't know that we have linux unplugged.com now.
Yeah that's so shiny yeah if you go to linux unplugged.com slash 243 you get links to anything any apps we talked about anything like that just linux unplugged i'm doing it right now you can do it with me linux unplugged.com slash 243 boom.
Of course as we do this show it's not posted yet but after it's posted it'll be live that's the new website a new rss feed there too linux unplugged.com slash rss if you want to plug that in your podcast catcher of choice.
And if you've got one of those podcasts to catchers that supports chapter markers check those out too and you know what i'm talking about chapter markers.
We'll give a plug to a user air this week it's back episode 47 with noah myself and joe's on there joe ressington joins us for i thought a particularly good episode of the user air program also with chapter markers boom.
Boom got the chapter markers everywhere so if you got a podcast catcher that supports them.
Go take advantage of that let's take a moment and let's thank tang for sponsoring the unplugged program linux.ting.com you know I could tell you about ting but it's been a while since we've heard from kyra so let's have kyra do what do you say you want to do it all right tell me about ting.
Ting keeps rates simple we don't make you pick a plan instead you just use your phone as you normally would how much you use determines how much you pay each month you can have as many devices as you want on one account that's good because when you use more you pay less per minute message or megabyte of data.
Your usage plus six dollars per active device on your account plus taxes is your monthly bill simple that's what we mean when we say mobile that makes sense.
It's it's better than unlimited because you have to pay a lot of money for unlimited but with ting you just pay for what you use six dollars a month your minutes your messages and your megabytes nationwide coverage cdma and gsm no contracts no agreements nor the termination fees none of that plus great customer service.
Those are all the extra things I like to mention that I she couldn't fit into that jazzy tune but check it out linux.ting.com it'll take twenty five dollars off a device or if you just want to bring one that's compatible because they do have the two networks so check their b y o d page.
Then they'll give you twenty five dollars in service credit linux.ting.com and a big thank you to ting for sponsoring the unplugged program linux.ting.com so there's just one story that's gotten a lot of attention this week and it's a total non story.
So we're just going to we're going to we're going to razz it here a little bit we're going to take a piss I believe as our friends from across the pond would say hello hello Dan I'm glad you made it because I guess what a Juno progress update is our next story so I'm glad you could make it into the show today.
Hey yeah so let's talk about this let's talk about this hype story though the Linux kernel is cutting its code size by five hundred thousand lines of code by dropping support for old CPU architectures and I know a lot of you did your ears perk up and go to seven thirty two bit.
Does that mean thirty two bit does that mean does that mean power PC what does that mean no it's nothing like that it's like it's like these crazy ones like met tag.
MN ten thirty back Flynn there's one called there's a Chris CPU architecture oh don't cut that one they're going to end the unit court thirty two it's gone also hexagon architectures are out.
But they're they're they're maintainers are trying to step up their their contributions so they may keep it but they say killing off support for the for these different architectures that aren't really used anymore is beneficial for lots of reasons number one it'll reduce the time.
It'll reduce the attack surface of the kernel and it also just reduces the damn size of the kernel which is particularly nice and although many of us have fond memories of working on these old systems it is time to move on and out with the old and with the new got to get all those new arm processor and phone supports in there after all.
It looks like that'll be about a little under two point five percent reductions no getting those not too bad just did you just do a little quick math over there but I heard you quick math in it over there.
You're on a roll today West also spun up a server app that we're going to be talking about later in the show during the intro of the show I think he's putting that on maniac all right so Daniel for a from elementary OS is here.
And his timing is great because I want to talk about the slow and steady march towards Juno.
Now Juno is the next release of elementary OS which will be based on 1804 LTS of Ubuntu and lots of new things are coming we've been kind of covering this as it gets here and a new post went up and there you guys you guys have a feature that I'll say is inspired by unity.
That was one of the best new user unity features so while we start there Dan.
Yeah so you know a couple of things we've been looking at with this release especially is kind of user feedback and figuring out what do people feel like is missing or what are people saying that maybe elementary OS can't do right now and kind of showing them how they can do it.
And so this is I think one of the great ways that unity showed them how you can use keyboard shortcuts there and so we said hey this is a great idea let's implement it.
So you mash down the super key essentially and if you hold it long enough a pop up comes up with an overview of the keyboard shortcuts that the end user might want to cycle through a window or switch workspaces or take a screenshot or even zoom an application in.
And but then you guys went further than that you can also remap with that super key goes to you like you can change the mash behavior.
Yeah so we set that up because we know that people have different expectations of what they want the super key to be so we figured you know the first try we're going to have it pop up the keyboard shortcuts show them you know this is what we set it up as default.
But then you have a quick shortcut that'll put you right into shortcut settings and you can have it show instead the applications menu or you can just have it do nothing if it's getting in your way.
Looks like it's while we're talking about system settings the Bluetooth menu got reworked quite a bit new device discovery seems a little different and is this essentially moving away from like the gnome tools and and rolling your own Bluetooth stuff here with the management aspect.
Right so one of the things that we have to kind of work with in a new release is changes that upstream surveyed and the gnome Bluetooth wizard has actually been deprecated upstream for a really long time and so we're we've kind of finally moved away from that and have more of our own tools.
It looks nice and clean as it always does it almost goes without saying these days it always looks nice and clean OK so the one thing that I wasn't clear on.
Is you guys have Geo clue Geo clue API that developers that are creating applications for elementary OS can use to entertain the user's location and that's controllable by the end user.
So what's new with Juno because that's that's already existed correct.
Right so we had the Geo clue API in before but there were some big problems one was that we didn't have any documentation available for it on Voladoc another was that.
That you had to ship a custom the API file with your app to actually use it so that was kind of inconvenient and you have to know how to do that and then another big issue we had is there was no real incentive for developers or users to care about this API because they had no kind of controller interaction with it.
Well and now now it's like even more like you what the part I didn't quite quite grok was like now it's like down to the nearest town like you can get more fine grained of how close it gets.
For the answer what we do is that now when an app wants to get your location through Geo clue we throw up a little alert dialogue and we ask you permission and then we let you know what kind of accuracy that the app is requesting so you can know.
Like right so if you have an app that should only be requesting country level but it's requesting street level you can say hey no like I don't want to do that.
That's like well so that's those are the things that jumped out at me is there any other things that made anything I missed or anything you want to mention.
Yeah I mean we've been trying to look at some things that our users have been asking for and one of the big ones is some more changes to code.
So there was yeah there was recently a poll in the Vala Google Plus community and that said that more people are using elementary code to write Vala apps than G edit and gnome builder combined wow.
Yeah so we're really going hard on trying to make this a great code editor we've added a new fast style scheme switcher so you can easily go into dark mode with Solarize dark or light mode with Solarize light and that's just a one button click back and forth.
I like that yeah I see that this this is one of these I don't have I have I ever it wasn't this rename like this is I knew this by another name before didn't I before it became code.
Yeah so in in elementary us Loki we shipped it as scratch this is this is a total rebranding okay well dang dang it looks great and so now it's called code and that was formerly formerly the artist formerly known as scratch.
Right dang and those are just the things you're talking about at this point just yeah there's some app app center updates as well some changing over like going from updates to installed and a few other like tightening up of the UI there.
It's good stuff dance good good stuff so when do I get it when do I get it when do I get it Dan Dan when do I get it Dan Dan can I have it now Dan Dan when do I get it when do I get it Dan I want it now.
So where we're trying really hard to get to the point where we can release a public beta.
What we're doing right now is we're trying to track any regressions from the old version and make sure that we fix those up and things are ready for our developers to get their applications ready to ship an app center and for translators to go in and so we have to hit a string free so the translators can go in and do all their stuff you know before release time.
Very good well I'll wait patiently then I suppose because it just takes his time is what you're saying.
Yeah so Ubuntu though is coming final beta though right so you know as far as upstreams are are you know that's tracking nicely so that'll that'll save us and let us focus in on just kind of cleaning up and then getting ready to roll that beta out like real soon.
All right all right I'm excited how well thanks for coming by and giving us an update I like you I like the guys are keeping us posted helps build the hype and that's always appreciated it's always fun to get excited about a new release.
Yeah trying to definitely tune into our blog because we were posting stuff all the time about what we're working on boom we'll have a link to that in the show notes as well.
How about a just a quick shout out to the GNU cache project because I don't think we've ever mentioned them on the show and they just reached a major milestone version 3.0 has been released and it finally has been moved over to GTK 3.
Nice.
Yeah and you know I think that's probably taken them quite a bit of work to get there so I thought it was worth celebrating even though we've never really mentioned the show it's one of those boring just get work done tools but it is kind of great.
Yeah I mean for for double entry you know simple double entry account and stuff works pretty nicely.
Looks like they've added support for some online service APIs too.
Oh that's handy.
So it could be yeah and some improvements to the SQL database backend stuff so GNU cache 3.0 with GTK 3 now baked in.
Check it out.
Yeah yeah I guess so.
I don't know I don't think I've probably launched GNU cache in years.
All right we do have a new cubes OS anybody in the moment room a cubes OS user you know anybody anybody.
I thought we had somebody at one point.
Come back to us.
Everybody switched over to elementary OS I guess.
It's so flashy.
Yeah yeah yeah.
All right well we'll talk about cubes OS then so cubes OS is you know what you know what actually before we go to cubes OS let's let's take a moment and let's mention this while we plugged we plugged user error.
I'll also mention check out this week's late night Linux that just came out.
It's Ike's last episode and they have Graham on from Linux voice and talk about some of their future plans so go check out that was a pretty great episode.
And then also I think we mentioned it once before but one more plug skis.
The Ubuntu podcast is back from their season break.
They recently had a great interview.
Yeah we are.
Fantastic.
Congratulations guys.
It's good to have you back.
And so Ubuntu podcast is definitely worth checking out and you know it might as well if we're doing this I'll throw a plug in there.
For tech snap tech snap dot systems Wes is going to do a breakdown of a super cool open source tool called Terraform and I will be covering that in this week's episode that we coming out on Thursday.
Lots of fun.
Yeah.
So there you go.
I just want to mention a few of those things because there's a lot of really cool stuff going on out there right now.
Speaking of cool stuff how about digital ocean.
Oh yeah.
You know I'm all about it.
Go to do that CEO slash unplugged and get a hundred dollar credit if you have a new account and you have a you have a legitimate credit card on file you can get a one hundred dollar credit at digital ocean.
This is secure reliable predictable pricing super easy infrastructure at scale and they now have flexible droplets.
You can mix and match the resources that are most appropriate for your application.
Deo dot CEO slash action you know I've told you so much about digital ocean wouldn't it be good wouldn't it be good to hear from somebody else West for once.
Please digital oceans cloud computing platform was designed with simplicity in mind giving development teams the ability to easily manage infrastructure.
That's why thousands of businesses around the world are building deploying and scaling their applications faster and more efficiently on digital ocean using our simple control panel or API.
You and your team can seamlessly go from deploying to scaling highly available web mobile pass DBSC or machine learning applications in just a matter of seconds quickly set up one to thousands of virtual machines easily secure servers and enable performance.
Monitoring and effortlessly attach more storage plus you'll always know exactly what you'll be paying every month with a predictable flat pricing structure across all global data center regions.
By using digital ocean you'll get the infrastructure experience that development teams in love with the features your business needs.
Sign up for digital ocean today and experience simplicity at scale.
Oh, do dot co slash unplugged do dot co slash unplugged. I don't know what's all of a sudden I decided to make it a theme I'd have other people do the ad read this week, it's way easier.
And there's less that you will mispronounce them. Why didn't I?
So it's the best about the world. Really? Why didn't I think of it before? Fair enough. All right. So back to cubes OS.
That was a fun diversion. You know, sometimes you got to pet the dog. You know, sure thing. Sometimes you keep them happy. Yeah.
Cubes OS 4.0 is out after nearly two years in development, countless hours of testing. You and I did mention it recently.
It's got a new admin API and brand new core stack, fully virtualized VMs for enhanced security, multiple flexible disposable VM templates that can be spun up immediately.
A brand new RPC policy system, a powerful new VM volume manager that makes it easy to keep different VMs on external drive.
That's super cool. So hey, get this drive, plug it in, let's go. New template system and a rewritten command line interface.
That's like a lot of stuff. And I think the virtualization changes stuff has been huge in this version of cubes OS.
So big congratulations to cubes OS for the brand new release. I don't really, you know, like I know that the Purism laptops are going to be shipping based on with cubes OS.
I don't personally have a use for it yet, but it is very cool. The idea is that you run everything in its own isolated VM.
So you have a web browser VM, you have a chat VM, you have an IRC VM, like you have all these VMs on your system and there is some resource sharing they do.
So it's not like it's massively. Right. But the idea is that everything has its own independent stack.
And then as long as your virtualizer is secure, then your applications are isolated and secure. It's like containers, who needs that, right?
Yeah, we already have virtual machines.
And it's interesting to watch cubes sort of respond in now a container world because cubes has been around for a long time since before Docker was really, you know, a common idea.
And so they've sort of had to watch the market move around them a little bit and they've had to adapt to that. And I think this release reflects that.
Yeah, it's impressive that, you know, despite I certainly don't use it very much either, though this is making me want to give it a spin one of these upcoming weeks.
You know, they have a lot of momentum going for themselves and making constant improvements.
Yep. Yep, exactly. And we're going to talk a little bit about Richard Stallman's post here in a bit. And I think maybe we could revisit that then.
Oh, yeah.
You know, that security kind of stuff. But yeah, maybe one of these days, Wes, maybe one of these days, we're avoiding the whole challenges thing for a while.
One of these days we could do like a cubes OS week or so.
Oh, that could be fun.
Especially if we could run on our laptops, you know, but we both put it on the laptop and we work out of that for a week.
See what it's like. Really get an appreciation for that workflow.
Would it be doable? People might be listening that do this all the time and might just think it's not that big of a deal. I don't know.
Okay, well, let's do a little app pick here. It's kind of a server side app pick and something that Wes got set up, like I said, during the intro.
I've been thinking a lot recently about Discord versus IRC. As some of you guys know, we did a poll in the show and it was pretty much universally IRC that won.
And I was trying to break down like, well, what is this about? And a lot of people said, well, you know, IRC isn't a cloud service.
IRC is, you know, it's the open source way. Like, there's all these different reasons that people had.
And none of it totally clicked with me because, you know, the IRC system that most people use, like Freenode or like GeekShed in our case, is hosted by someone else on their computer.
It's kind of technically a cloud service. It's just the cloud service that we didn't call cloud services back in the day. It was just a server you connected to.
But if IRC were to launch today, that would be considered a cloud service. And so I didn't really buy the argument that moving away from Discord got us off the cloud or something like that.
But you can't argue that one thing you can do with IRC that you can't do with Discord is you can truly brew your own IRC server, roll it yourself if you want.
Definitely.
And that kind of got me down this path of like, what other things do we commonly now use as hosted services that we could quickly and easily re-implement for ourselves if we didn't need something huge and large scale?
Large scale. Maybe you don't need a Freenode scale IRC system. Maybe you don't even need something as large as what Jupyter Broadcasting needs.
20, 30, 40 people in an IRC room. Nothing massive. How many hoops do you have to go through to just do this yourself?
Maybe you just need a private server, you know, behind closed doors to orchestrate a couple things.
So how easy is it? Well, Wes found Oregano. Oregano is a modern experimental IRC server written in Go.
You've guessed it was either going to be Go or Rust, didn't you?
It's designed to be simple to set up and use, and it includes features such as UTF-8 NICs, channel names, client accounts with Sassl, and IRC v3 support.
And you got it up and running on your laptop there.
Actually, it's running up on a digital ocean drop.
Of course. Of course. Of course. I should have known. I should have known.
What is your initial impressions on the difficulty to set it up and all that kind of stuff?
Oh, it was quite easy. They've got releases available. It looks like it's in the AUR as well, if you want to give it a go that way.
But really, you just go to the release pages on their GitHub, download it, extract a tarball.
They've got a couple commands you can run to set up the certs and set up a DB.
And then away you go. I've posted an IP there in the IRC for our live listeners.
Cool.
You guys can go check in, start chatting. There's a hashtag JB channel right now.
I found a couple of things about it that I liked. It's got native support for TLS SSL.
It's got YAML configuration files that are easy to read.
Passwords are stored in bcrypt and are also salted, which I like all those things.
And it, at least from your description, seems to be easy to set up.
So if you did want to take this under your own control and you didn't need something large scale, I'm not trying to say what this can or can't scale up to.
I think a lot of times we get sort of carried away when we try to say we're going to replace Google or we're going to replace Discord and we try to replace it with something at their scale.
It's just not possible. But we don't all need that scale.
And this is an example of an application that you just put on a VPS in a couple of minutes that if you wanted to, everyone at work in your office could be using this.
Yeah, I don't think that would work just fine.
Yeah, and then maybe you wouldn't need Slack.
And if it doesn't take hours to get set up and secured, if it can be as simple as I mean, how many minutes to take you?
Five, ten minutes?
Less than that. Yeah, three minutes.
I don't know.
Because one of the peels of Slack is when you just want to create a Slack group, you just go click a button, put a name in there and start inviting people and you're good to go.
Well, this isn't that much longer.
It's something you control.
And there's just that creepy story about Slack giving access to your direct messages to management.
And, you know, this doesn't have those problems.
And anybody using any old IRC client can use it.
That's pretty cool.
And then if you want cloud support, you combine it with something like IRC Cloud.
Yeah, right. There you go.
You have a layered solution.
Yeah, yeah. It's pretty neat, huh?
Yeah, it's simple, no nonsense.
I don't know that it's as configurable as some of the, you know, standard IRC servers.
But you might not need that, right?
Especially maybe or maybe you're just using it to transfer data or automate some bots and processes around the office.
This could be cool, too.
Like you just need to spin it up during an event, right?
You use it to coordinate during an event or something like that.
And then when the event's over, you spin it.
You just turn it right off.
Yeah.
So anyways, that's called Oregano, and we will have a link to it in the show notes.
And it looks like they also have a couple of different test servers that are always running that you can check out as well.
Levi's here to check it out.
Levi says he approves of it.
Don't you, Levi?
Yeah, Levi, the studio dog, he likes Oregano.
He probably does, actually.
He probably does.
Get out of there.
Do you have any use for your own IRC server?
I don't really.
I mean, what I want, you know, because we can sometimes have hundreds of people in there.
I just don't think I'd want to use something like this.
Right, and I mean, it kind of makes sense as part of the business to have a little, not really, our special sauce to host our own IRC server.
So, but I don't know that I need one, but I could see it if you, you know, maybe you've already got written some IRC bots or, yeah,
you're just like a small office of tech savvy people and you just need someone to store your chat logs and make async communication and other things easier.
Maybe you're doing a podcast.
You know, you've got a podcast with, you know, a few dozen people watching live.
I mean, like right now we probably, there's probably not so many people in the chat room that we couldn't host all these people on it.
I'm sure, yeah, we could even give it a shot.
Yeah.
Well, some of them may be right now.
Do you have people logging in?
Yeah, looks like we've got a couple people checking it out.
Eric, Tech Mav.
Eric, you got in there?
I got in there, yeah.
I sure did.
Good.
Good, have fun.
That's nice.
It's really fast.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, this is just running on the baseline Deho Droplet.
I see, yeah.
Well, there you go.
And now you're off to running your own infrastructure once.
Boom.
You didn't even have to use Terraform.
And I did not.
Yeah.
Well, that's pretty cool.
If you have any other kind of like really nice self-hosted services that, you know, something that we haven't really talked a lot about before, because we've done the Nextcloud thing.
You know, we've done all that.
I could also see this being helpful maybe if you're just trying to learn like to write an IRC implementation or something.
You want something to either see the source or just hack against locally, running it there, writing your client to attach to.
That could be easy too.
Yeah, yeah.
And if you – what else you've been re-self-hosting or would like to see us attempt, go to linuxunplug.com slash contact and put it in there.
Because I think it's not that like we have to be all like anti-hosted services.
But I think that if we can opt to use something like this from time to time, it sort of forces the rest of the industry, the software ecosystem, to still support it.
So I'm always a big fan of that.
And, you know, we're going to get into Richard Stallman.
You know, this is kind of a good segue actually.
He wrote a post over at The Guardian and he calls it a radical proposal to keep your personal data safe.
And he really does – I'll just kind of read it and then we can talk about it.
Because he does a good job of sort of illustrating a couple of points that maybe could be practical, could possibly work.
Maybe we'll discuss that because I think that's sort of the question.
But he writes, journalists have been asking me whether the revolution against the abuse of Facebook data could be a turning point for the campaign to recover privacy.
He says that could happen if the public makes a campaign for a broader and deeper push.
Broader meaning extending to all surveillance systems, not just Facebook.
Deeper meaning to advance from regulating the use of data to regulating the accumulation of data.
Because surveillance is so pervasive, restoring privacy is necessarily a big change and requires powerful measures.
The surveillance imposed on us today far exceeds that of the Soviet Union.
For freedom and democracy's sake, we need to eliminate most of it.
There are so many ways to use data to hurt people that the only safe database is the one that was never collected.
Thus, instead of the EU's approach to mainly regulating how personal data may be used with its general data protection regulation or GDPR,
I propose a law to stop systems from collecting personal data.
He means altogether.
And the most robust way to do that, the way that can't be set aside at the whim of a government,
is to require systems to be built so as not to collect data about a person.
The basic principle is that a system must be designed not to collect certain data if its basic function can be carried out without that data.
So we have to start designing systems in a way that they just simply don't collect data because the temptation to have data is so high.
It really is.
Now, is that practical though?
He talks about the Transport for London digital card payment system that records the trips,
the cameras that record your entry to the system when you go down there.
He says that we'd have to redesign security systems in a way in the public where they don't constantly record everything,
that the recordings would be local recordings that could be checked in the next few weeks if a crime were to occur,
but should not allow remote viewing without physical collection of the recording.
Biometric systems should be designed so that they only recognize people on a court ordered list of suspects to respect the privacy of the rest of us.
An unjust state is more dangerous than terrorism and too much security encourages an unjust state.
So his argument there for the security cameras is local SD recordings basically, and then the popo go in and recover the recordings within a few weeks if there's an emergency.
But maybe like every 90 days or whatever, the cameras wipe themselves or just start overriding themselves.
And same with like payment systems and whatnot.
Is that practical?
Let's take that one first.
Because if you think about this, we have such a massive problem that we're facing now.
Even Stallman in here feels a little defeatist.
He comes across a bit defeatist.
He does, yeah, right?
Yeah, he talks about how people don't care enough and about how the only way it's going to change is people care, but people don't care.
So that was going to be my question to you.
In your prompt, what do you mean by practical?
Because obviously, I think in many ways, technically, yes, right?
But I think he is somewhat correct in identifying a lot of the reasons, both from the law enforcement side, right?
More data means faster actions, maybe, or arguably better public safety, perhaps not.
But that's the case.
And from the business side, more data is more features.
And a lot of times, those frills, right?
A lot of times, even when we're talking about hosted versus self-hosting, those frills are that extra little stuff at the end that really makes the difference and that users really like, even if they're not central to the feature.
Yeah, he argues that additional services could be offered separately to users who actually request and want them.
And even better, those users could use their own personal systems to track their own journeys if they wanted or something like that.
So the tracking stuff could be additive instead of built in.
The other hard part, I think, is that a lot of times, in the small, they make sense, right?
You're like, oh, yeah, I do want to see all my past trips on the tube or whatever.
And it's only in the aggregate when it's this large.
Once it's become this large collection, then it becomes creepy and complete surveillance.
Yeah, I mean, let's be honest.
We have so many different things that are monitoring our activity now.
We have data brokers. You have credit monitoring agencies.
You have things like MoviePass that are trying to construct a night out at the movies where they track all of your location.
And there's a lot of companies that are in this business now.
I mean, Facebook and Google are maybe the most prevalent offenders that we talk about.
But there's so much other stuff.
And so what Stallman is essentially suggesting, and maybe this is the core thing I'd like to bounce around with you and the Mumble Room is,
is it possible to design these systems just in a way, like can we say they just by default don't collect information?
Can we do that? Is that accomplishable?
And why wouldn't that work?
And I think, think about it, too, from like a system administration management standpoint.
Think about that for a moment.
Could we do that?
Could you build a system in a way where it's not collecting metrics, it's not collecting information and usage?
I don't know.
So let's discuss that next.
But first, linuxacademy.com slash unplugged.
Sign up for a free seven-day trial, and you support this here darn show.
linuxacademy.com slash unplugged.
I am so tempted to play the clip just to keep with our theme, but I'm not going to do it.
I'm going to change it up from what you expect, and I'm going to tell you just go over it yourself because it is great.
linuxacademy.com slash unplugged.
That's where you go to sign up for a free seven-day trial and support the show.
Try out their self-paced, in-depth video courses on every Linux, cloud, and DevOps topic.
They have a course scheduler to work with you if you're busy.
And they have learning paths, which are a series of courses and content that's been planned by their instructors for a specific career track.
That's awesome.
And then you combine that when you're ready to go get your certs.
They have practice quizzes to help sort of get you ready.
And they have courses that are created specifically to prepare you for those exams and flashcards, which are forked by the community to help you study.
So it's a system to help you get through this.
It's exactly the kind of support I could have used.
And then the thing that really benefits for somebody like me is these hands-on labs.
They spin these servers up.
It doesn't matter what you're learning.
You pick the distribution with your courseware.
The courseware matches it.
The virtual machine will spin them up.
They even have systems for AWS when you're learning that.
And they have all kinds of great resources available to you, including study guides, lesson audio, personal notebooks that you can take with you offline, iOS and Android apps.
Why not quiz yourself?
And they have added offline support on the iOS and Android app for the quizzes.
And you can catch the lessons.
That's perfect for travel or just taking a break at the beach.
And if you really get stuck, they've got real humans that can help you.
Full-time human beings that can answer your questions.
Linuxacademy.com slash unplugged.
Go there to support the show and a big thank you to Linux Academy for sponsoring the Unplugged program.
So I was thinking about this.
I couldn't really build a network without some data.
Like if I don't even track the downloads and I don't know what shows are a huge waste of our time versus what shows people really like.
So if you're building a server and you're not collecting metrics on where people are connecting from, then you can't properly build out how your site loads for people.
You can't cache it correctly.
You have to do some level of tracking.
And even at that level, metadata is useful.
Certainly.
You and I were talking about a couple of different examples of metadata that we have just from like friends and family that use different services.
And it's like you can kind of figure out what they're doing just by looking at the metadata.
And I definitely wish Stalman was right here, but it just doesn't seem possible.
It just doesn't.
It seems like we've gone too far down that route.
You could technically do it, but there's not enough motivation to pull it off.
Do you think I'm wrong?
I wish you were more wrong.
I think in an alternate universe, it all seems possible.
It seems like it could be within our reach, except it's going to be a lot of work.
Because it's one of those like we can, but should we questions.
And that takes impulse control and principles that you apply on a daily basis, especially in the face of like profit driven motives or other things.
And that's where I think it breaks down.
Do you think, okay, so I think maybe this could change if people started to really value what their personal information was worth.
Like if a couple of things keep happening that made people understand the value of it.
So mini-mech suggests that perhaps it's an opt-in feature.
But would people actually pay for that mini or would they, if you don't offer it to them for free, they're not going to bother.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I get the idea that like you and Stalman were positioning that something like that could be an extra feature you pay for.
Like the tracking that records all of your routes so you can graph them all for the year.
But I don't think anybody would actually pay for it, do you?
No, I think if you want to have trust again in these services, try to collect as less data as possible.
And tell your users you can have other features in this product, but then you will share this and this and this data.
And all this stuff should be opt-in and not opt-out.
It's like that I think you can gain the trust again.
Otherwise, a lot of people are really scared now what they're doing.
I wonder if either Popey or Wimpy would like to comment on the GDPR stuff.
Because obviously it's at the fringes of my understanding.
But he does mention in here the EU's GDPR regulations are well-meaning, but don't go very far.
He says they won't deliver very much privacy because the rules are too relaxed.
They permit collecting any data if it's somehow useful to the system.
And it's easy to come up with any way to make a particular data useful for something.
He says the GDPR makes much of requiring users to give consent for the collection of their data, but it doesn't do much good.
System designers have become experts at manufacturing consent.
Does either one of you have a thought on GDPR and his take that it doesn't go far enough, it doesn't do enough, it doesn't really solve this problem?
I would love to offer some erudite insight into that, but I've accidentally started playing Bomb Jack using MAME.
As it happens, I have been looking at GDPR a little bit recently.
And the problem that I see with it from my own point of view with regards to the Ubuntu Matto project and the way that we collect our crowdfunding is that that creates a problem for us.
But the issue is that the rules are too vague and therefore pretty much everything falls under its rules in some fashion or other.
And it's unclear if you're truly affected and whether you need to make a change or are people just making changes because it's so vague.
Yeah, that is been my take on it, too.
I did a little bit of looking into it for Tech Talk today and I was really surprised at the language when I actually got my hands on it.
It seemed like you could interpret that in a lot of different ways and maybe that's what Stallman is trying to get at here.
He says that we just have to stop surveillance before it even begins to prevent this and I think that ship's already sailed, unfortunately.
And that's why I think he's a little defeatist.
I think some part of him must know it's too late.
Right, and maybe there are opportunities to choose some services if more services and things spring up that do claim at least to have those principles.
But there are so many, like with cameras, like things that governments use, there's so many little areas that often are ignored by the public.
It's hard to see there being a lot of scrutiny or impetus to make changes there.
He does give a plug, though, for their one-click cash payment.
GNU Taler, T-A-L-E-R, it's an electronic payment system under development that they hope to make operational this year.
And they're pretty jazzed about it, so he gives it a plug in the Guardian article there.
I have not actually played with it. I have heard of it before.
It looks like they've got a snazzier site now, so that's a first step.
Yeah, that is.
Oh, I don't know. I read this and I think, boy, good idea. The problem is that it just doesn't scale.
Like his idea for local storage and cameras, that doesn't scale.
It simply is there's too many cameras now, and there's too few people to monitor them, and it's just too late.
This ship's already sailed.
I wonder, is there time? Can this abate some potential AI machine learning problems?
We're only getting started in the creep factors possible in that technology. Can we forestall some developments?
Yeah, well, is there something you can individually do is what I was thinking about.
What if you just became an international man of mystery or woman intentionally?
We talked about this before, but you start using VPNs regularly. You start using GPG all the time.
You maybe use different names for different sites. You use different containers in Firefox to create different identities.
Or live CDs only.
Yeah, maybe you start behaving like somebody who is trying to cover their tracks a little bit, so that way it just becomes normal.
And then the more of us who do it, it's just the norm.
Oh yeah, that's just what technology people do. Oh, those techies, they're always using all that security.
Right, we've seen things like some devices that try to VPN as a router at the edge or funnel you through Tor.
Yeah, so if you did those things, then that would mitigate tracking.
I saw this hat that blocks face recognition. I wonder if we could find it.
Hat that blocks face recognition. It's a face recognition-like prevention hat.
It's the most funniest thing, because that's actually kind of a funny thing when you search for that. You get a lot of funny different results.
But somebody is working on a hat that has a built-in LED light array in the brim, which blocks facial recognition cameras.
So you can wear that when you go out if you are super paranoid.
See, that's the thing. Right there, I just did it. I just did it. We have to stop talking like it's a super paranoid thing to do.
It just has to become okay and normal to want to have a hat that blocks facial recognition.
Right, that your personal privacy is a reasonable thing to protect without having to explain why or feel like you're suspicious or paranoid.
Nobody listening is going to do it. Nobody. I wonder what that tells us. Maybe this is something we're just-
Maybe if we collect a whole bunch of information, we can find out what that tells us.
Yeah, I think it tells us the scale of economies with technology and the momentum there is so strong that this is happening.
That we're now capable of having machines that are capable of analyzing images. We can have them monitor multiple video feeds at the same time.
And that capability is just beginning. It's just going to get more advanced. It's here.
And we've all known. Anybody that's been in technology for years has known this is coming. We've all known this is coming.
It's just so obvious because the machines are getting better and better with machine vision and all of that.
So, I guess the next conversation we need to be having and should already be having is,
what do we change about society and society's understanding of technology to make sure that this is properly stewarded?
So that people can be good shepherds of this stuff. Is that possible or is that pie in the sky?
I mean, it is pie in the sky. It seems possible. It seems like that could be a track that we could head down.
Because nobody in here, I don't believe anybody in the mumble room, I don't believe probably anyone listening,
is going to start wearing a hat to block facial recognition, is going to start using VPNs all the time, is going to use GPG.
Maybe those things are maybes, but it's going to be such a minority of the audience that does it.
It could literally be down to, you could count them with one hand, how many people in the audience.
Yeah, let alone popular culture. How do you get that movement to start?
Sure, there's lots of people concerned about Facebook, but we just don't have that level of skill or interest.
There's just so many new devices coming online all the time that track your activity, that generate metadata.
I covered an article that was looking at the, they put a packet with consent, they put a packet capture at the router.
And just looked at the data generated by smart appliances, like smart plugs and the Alexa and that stuff.
And they were able to get a pretty good idea of what was going on in the household.
Sure, right?
So that's all, it's happened already. It's happened.
And people still want those features, right?
Just think about how many people even in our audience are still hooked on Google services.
Because it turns out when they read all of your email with machines, it's nice, right?
Or when they know all of the calendar appointments you have, they can do clever things.
And you like those things.
Yeah, I'm taking the kids on a spring break trip, a road trip over the weekend.
And in my Google Now cards is a card for, here's the things to do in that town.
And I, you know, I'm like, wow.
I read my email, figured out that I booked a campsite, and then generated a card of the highlights of what to do in that town without me ever prompting for a single thing.
I don't know if, I mean, good or bad, it's just interesting that it can do that.
So we're there.
So that's why I think we have to talk about the good stewardship stuff a little bit.
And maybe, really, we can't possibly come up with a solution here, but maybe we can come up with a way to start the conversation.
I don't know.
Right.
Sets of principles, and then maybe eventual regulation or other steps so that these can be ingrained, right?
Like, how do we set up at least guardrails so that maybe some of these can still exist if you want them,
but that we can be assured that some sort of privacy-centered policies are being followed on the back end?
Hmm.
Pie in the sky stuff on this week's episode.
I'm depressed now.
It's being driven by corporations, right?
So it's going to be difficult.
But I guess we are their customers.
And I think, I mean, there have been cases in the past, right, where consumer sentiment changed and companies were forced to reflect on that.
But it's a slow process, and I think also somewhat unpredictable.
Yeah.
So I'll give, if anybody in the Mumble Room wants to give a final word on the idea of kind of what we do now that we're at this point with the Googles and the Facebooks and the Cambridge Analyticas and all of the other monitors out there,
what is the next step that we can practically take?
Does anybody have thoughts on that?
You mentioned GPG.
That is definitely a way to encrypt email and make it possible.
And I just recently found a way to do it with Apple Mail.
Is anybody going to seek that out?
No.
Unfortunately.
And so that's just kind of the world we're living in, is that nobody even knows they can do it, let alone will do it.
Yeah.
And the thing is, is that Stallman's not going to be around forever.
And there's really almost nobody that gets media recognition that's banging that drum like that.
Eben Moglen is the name.
Well, and Edward, I could name a couple others.
Edward Snowden has been also, you know, making some public statements about Cube's OS, for example, has been promoted by Edward Snowden.
So there's others.
But, you know, it's a handful of people, don't you think, Dar?
I think it's a handful of people, but you don't really want many people to do this.
See, Stallman is an issue sometimes because of his other political views.
Eben Moglen seems to be the most balanced person so far in terms of being to the positions of Stallman,
because Stallman is usually a little bit of the extreme to kind of make that contrast to the middle ground that most people actually live in.
Eben Moglen is kind of more towards spending that side, but actually still reaches the people of the middle ground.
Edward Snowden, he's always going to have that reputation of the past, of what he has done.
And then you have to think he still uses, you know, the proprietary products still.
He says Apple is good and things like that.
So that's not really the message for a foundation like that.
So Stallman's solution for privacy is build the systems not to collect the data to begin with.
But my counter to that was we're so far, far past that.
So what do you do now, Dar?
So what do you do now at this point now that it's already there?
Everybody's already monitoring.
There's thousands of cameras in cities in any modern city now.
So now what?
So I think that the point we got ourselves in is the one that things like FreedomBox matter more.
It's a project that intends to be this device that you sit in front of your router so all of your traffic goes through it,
kind of does its fix before it gets to the real network.
And it happens.
You make phones that follow the same principles.
It's not connected to your modem at all times.
And you keep doing this and actually making people care.
And eventually when it comes to the CCTV cameras and everything, which is the part we can do the least,
it becomes less of a thing because usually CCTV cameras are way worse because they have so much other data on you already.
So they can then say, oh, yes, we're spotting these also other behavior.
But if it is just a footage of you going somewhere, there's no other notions of your blog post.
It's kind of irrelevant most of the time.
It's public information like anyone would have seen you.
It does seem like though, as long as we're connecting out to services that track us, there's only so much we can do.
Yes. Right.
If you're connecting to Facebook still or Twitter or Slack or Google, you think not.
Let's imagine the FreedomBox scenario, right?
Let's imagine the FreedomBox scenario.
You post on Facebook where FreedomBox already sees that you're posting on Facebook.
So encrypts the message.
You see it as if it was decrypted.
Your friends see it as if it was decrypted.
Yes, it is stored in Facebook, but ultimately it's encrypted text that actually is there in the database.
I didn't realize there was a save ability for FreedomBox.
That would be great.
That would be if that was possible.
Like so the FreedomBox is essentially doing encryption of the Facebook post and decryption on the other end automatically in this scenario, in this hypothetical scenario.
This is the type of idea that FreedomBox aims to achieve.
It's not at that stage.
It's hard work.
It requires a lot of people and not many people are working on that project, which makes it funny enough because, you know, it's important.
But ultimately it does some of the primary fundamental things like your email actually intends to do this for all email providers actually intercepting there.
And that's kind of what's intended.
And if we get to build tools like this, then nobody needs to worry.
Like it automatically torifies your traffic and things like that.
Now, I just hope that we can build these things and get them established while enough people still care.
Not to make this about the damn kids.
It's probably a pretty short little window that we have, right?
That is what my concern is.
That FreedomBox does look like a great project.
I'll have a link in the show notes, but freedombox.org if you want to check it out.
It seems like part of the problem is just too that oftentimes maybe with enough consumer interest we could have some easy to use privacy focused things.
But even making the claim of privacy, right, it's not a feature that you use in a normal sense.
And it takes a certain amount of understanding of the technical systems underpinning it to be able to appreciate like is this privacy real or is it just hype and marketing?
So that makes it hard for consumers to self-select as well.
So, Mumble Room, remind me who just bought TunnelBear?
Was it McAfee?
They just bought TunnelBear?
You know?
Yeah.
And that's an example.
Intel owns McAfee.
Yeah, right.
Oh, actually, I thought they spun them off.
But either way, it doesn't matter.
My point is that it shows you that even when there's not to make this like a socialism thing, but it seems like to me like if there is a business directive to earn money at a service like a VPN service.
That is a really, really precarious position to be in.
And your company has got to be structured right to do that.
And the problem is that, you know, another company can come in and buy them and they can have a completely different set of standards.
So that's why it would be nice to have something that the open source community addresses.
Or at least even if it's a commercial company, the solution they're implementing is using open source software.
Using open source, having more nonprofits involved, some more things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In my perspective, this is the reason you don't pick software for its technical capabilities, but rather for the principles of the project.
That's how you know that they're not going to sell out to somebody that would then allow those things to happen.
That's the whole principle.
You make contracts like the GPL does.
When you actually sign up to FSF, the FSF goes and makes an effort to make a contract to you that they will never go and do other things.
So you have legal ground to sue them if they do so.
Ultimately, it's that kind of trust that is required more than the technical capabilities.
And we tend to very often go to the technical capabilities as a choice.
We say that it's great that it's open source, but that doesn't allow the reversibility of the open source project.
While having that type of criteria does allow for that.
That is a well put point.
In fact, I think that's a good note there to wrap that segment on because perhaps long term, that is the best way to go about making your choice.
I think so.
All right, Mr. West, the Linux Unplugged program is live every single Tuesday and it would love to have you join that virtual club.
Do it.
Apparently, we talk about ourselves now in the third person.
That just happens.
Come join us, tell us to stop, tell us to keep it up.
We need you here.
It only stops if you make us go to jblive.tv on a Tuesday, get it converted to your time at jupyterbroadcasting.com.
And again, notes for everything at linuxunplugged.com.
Oh, thanks so much for being here.
I will see you right back here next Tuesday.
All right.
We name this thing and then we get out of here.
Amazing.
Good job, everybody.
I know it was kind of an awkward, somber episode with that shooting going.
Yeah, it's true.
Weird.
So hopefully everybody at YouTube is OK, including some people that we know that work there.
So, yeah, my thoughts are with them.
All right.
JBtitles.com.
Yeah, Dar, I think that was a good point.
I'm glad we were able to end it on that.
Yeah, definitely.
And Dan, thank you very much for making it.
That made the-
Beautiful.
Made that segment much better, as always.
So I appreciate you.
Thank you, too, to everybody else for making it.
Good to have all you guys here.
You guys are the tops.
The Stallman Directive.
Not too bad.
No, not bad at all.
Plundered Piracy, Privacy Booty.
The Code of Code is Code.
404 Stallman Not Found.
Clouds of Participation or Precipitate.
Yeah, you have to look at it yourself.
That's difficult.
My brain isn't working too good today.
Yeah, it is.
It's busted, Wes.
I've used all my brain.
I have to take the rest of the week off.
I think you should.
I've used all my brain.
Everyone, hang tight.
We'll be back next week.
Yeah.
All done.
Just put reruns on, see if anyone notices.
Yeah.
We'll just go back and we'll play episode 43 in place of episode 243 and see if anybody
even notices.
You could all.
Well, you know what?
Let's go see what we were talking about 200 episodes ago.
I wonder if we can find that.
You think we can?
All right.
You guys go vote while I go see what we...
Yeah.
Decide for us.
We can't title this.
No.
Let's see.
Episode...
Oh, interesting.
31 is when we changed over to the new logo.
Okay.
So I guess it's not...
I guess I can't call it new anymore.
Let's see.
Yeah.
It's the standard logo.
43.
Mint 7.
Fresh or Stagnant.
Oh, interesting.
Wow.
Yeah.
What was the verdict?
Well, I have a feeling I would say stale, but...
Hey, Chris.
Yes, sir.
Have you got a tremendous amount of spare time today?
Not particularly, but I got to edit this.
No, no.
That's fine.
Oh, that's mysterious though.
Yeah.
That's so mysterious.
That's super mysterious though.
You're leaving me having...
You're just letting that dangle.
Well, you know, I'll let you choose whether to do this or not, but if you do snap install
SDLPOP, SDL, you know, the simple direct media layer, SDLPOP, and then run SDLPOP.
It's not my fault if you lose the rest of your day.
Right?
Noted.
Yeah.
That's fair.
That is a good disclaimer.
We're going to give it a go.
All right.
The Stallman Directive is winning right now, by the way.
So if you have a title opinion...
We're going to run SDLPOP.
Does this need sound or anything?
Sound is just better with sound, yes.
Do you have the recording somewhere else?
Just in case.
This is amazing.
Okay.
So to quick save and load, press...
Oh, I didn't...
Oh no.
What?
Oh, Prince of Persia.
Amazing.
Is this...
It's an SDL reimplementation of the DOS disassembly that was done a little while ago.
What?
This is great.
This is so great.
Looks good.
Oh my God.
Wow.
It's great.
Look's good.
Oh man.
I didn't read the kids busy over spring break.
Yeah.
.